Minimotif Library Analysis Software (8/3/11)

Summary
We are building a library of minimotifs (concatamers of 100s of unique units into lengths of 1-100) and need to know the composition of motif in each clone and population statistics.

We have identified 4 common workflows which would be of interest.

Inputs
1.DNA sequence files (S1-Sx). (text files with clone id and string of DNA letters.)
2.SQL database of Minimotifs (table of motifs (M1 - Mx and sequences to be searched, and labels)
3.Linker sequence for all motifs
4.Restriction site sequence

Data Processing workflows

1. Single clone analysis
Read sequence file Si and report the following:
1.Identify motifs (M1 - Mx) present in DNA and their order
2.Confirm initiator motif and terminator motif and positions
3.Confirm proper insertion into two restriction sites.
4.Flag any incorrect assemblies and sequences with N positions
5.Report total number of minimotifs in clone
6.Generate a graph of overall structure, show linker regions that glue motifs together and alignment of motifs to sequences with labels.
7.Report any 1 nucleotide mutations in DNA

Multiple sequence file analysis

Read sequence files and report the following:
1.Identify common motifs present in all clones (not initiator and terminator)
2.Identify unique motifs present in each individual clone
3. Counts of occurrences of above
4. Identification of an clustering patterns of multiple motifs.
5.Flag if there are any duplicate clones.
6.Flag if there is more than one initiator and terminator
7.Flag clones with just and initiator and terminator

Library coverage
	Read sequence files and report the following:
	Read file of motif names or ids
	Report statistics on each motif in the clones (# occurrences, range of occurrences in clones, missing motifs in the library

96 well plate analysis
same as single clone analysis but reads an array of 96 ids from A-H and 1-12. Also include plate id.  Files will be named plate id.letter.number.


Distributed under the Eclipse Public License, the same as Clojure.
